Expeditions/Guide Resources/Premade Adventures/Quick Start.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Modifier List
permalink: /GuideResources/Adventures/QuickStart/
---
# Expedition: Into the Maw
![The Maw - Dyson Logos](https://dysonlogos.blog/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/with-teeth.jpg)

The "**Great Gnawer**," a subterranean deity revered (and feared) by goblin clans, is furious. The grinding sound from the "**Gnawer's Teeth**" has become chaotic and maddening, driving local goblin clans into a frenzy.

**Hook**:
**Sniv**, a trembling goblin, explains that his brother, **Grubb** (a powerful shaman), and his crew ventured into the "Giant Stone Teeth" a week ago to "appease the Gnawer" and fix the erratic grinding. None returned. Sniv begs for help, offering his tribe's "most cherished" **Gobloon**.


---
## 1. The Descent
You approach a large hill with a two paths leading to the top from opposite sides...
- **20 Large white stone pillars** sit atop a hill in a circular arrangement.
- **The ground trembles** along with a horrible **grinding sound**. 
- At the center of the "teeth" a **wide stairwell** leads underground into the hill.
- The air is stale and metallic.

- **Environmental Hazards:** TBD
    - **Grinding Floor:** Shifting, grinding sections cause trips or injury.
    - **Jutting Teeth:** Sharp, loose rocks on walls scrape or impale.
    - **Falling Debris:** Constant grinding dislodges rocks and dust.


---
## 2. The Engine
You enter a small chamber...
- There are **jagged walls** with tooth-like rock formations.
- A **massive, worn gear** mechanism rotates in the center.
- **3 goblin engineers** are intently working on the mechanism. 
- **Imposing stone doors** to the right (To Area 5).
- **Stairs descending** to the left (To Area 3).
  
**Massive Worn Gear:** Seems to be the cause of the grinding. Could be disabled.

**Imposing stone doors**: Appear to be stuck or otherwise unable to be opened / budged.
  
**Encounter:** Goblins attack when they notice the party. Fight amidst environmental hazards (Grinding Floor, Jutting Teeth, Falling Debris).


---
## 3. The Still Pool
You enter a natural, cool, damp cavern whithin which the grinding sound is muffled, replaced by the sound of **dripping water**.
- Shallow **pool of dark water** reflects faint phosphorescent glow.
- **Crude altar** in an alcove with a **slumped robed figure** next to it.
- A few steps lead to a **wooden door** (To Area 4).
  
**Crude Altar**: Upon the altar are scribbled notes about 'fiend magic', and rituals to perhaps become a host of a powerful fiend bound by a dark pact.

**Pool of Dark Water**: Under the still surface an impossibly dark swirling current churns.

**Slumped Robed Figure**: A gaunt, desperate **Goblin Shaman**, **Grubb** (Sniv's Brother), is shackled to the altar, softly moaning a mournful chant.
- Captured while investigating the unsettling silence.
- Shaman of the "Whispering Stone" tribe.
- Observes captors, hopes to share dire warnings...
	- The "Great Gnawer" was a lie.. it is just a machine.
	- The other goblins here seem to be operated by mind control.
	- The goblins speak of "Zixx" who seems to be their leader.

- **Encounter:** Opportunity for roleplay and negotiation. Grubb is a prisoner seeking freedom. TBD


---
## 4. The Chamber of Whispers
You enter a small, unassuming chamber...
- A **Glowing, Crystalline Key** sits on a central pedestal
- Upon Investigation:
	- Etched into the floor around the pedestal are **Faded, Abstract Symbols.*

**Glowing Crystalline Key**: Encased in a translucent, humming magical barrier. Will not be accessible until the puzzle is solved

- **Puzzle:** Deactivate the magical barrier to access the key, which unlocks Zixx's chambers.
	- TBD


---
## 5. The Warlock's Audience
You enter a large cavern humming with dark energy.
- Smooth walls with crude, **glowing glyphs**.
- Upon a raised platform sits a **pale green goblin** upon a jagged rock throne holding a **swirling orb of shadow** in his lap.
- A pair of silent, still **elite goblin guards** stand ready on either side of the throne.

**Pale green goblin**: Zixx the Warlock.
- Former shaman-in-training un Grubb.
- Made a dark pact with a fiend.
- Uses granted magic to brutally subjugate goblin clans.
- Exerts influence through impersonating the "Great Gnawer" to reinforce his power and instill fear.
  
- **Encounter Opportunities:**
	- Zixx engages the player in conversation as they enter the chamber...
		- "What unfortunate timing... who are you and why are you here?"
		- Passively mentions that once the **ritual is complete** he will no longer need to simply "pretend" to be the Great Gnawer.
		- Offers to empower the players with dark magic if they leave him to complete the ritual.
		  
	- **If the players let Zixx complete the ritual...**
		- Zixx is massively empowered by darkness and appears to be of living shadow.
		- Tendrils reach out from Zixx in all directions into the floor and walls as the grinding begins again.
		- Zixx turns to the players, calls them fools, and attacks them with empowered shadow magic and extra health.
		  
	- **If the players engage Zixx in combat**...
		- Zixx whispers into the orb and a large **Shadowy Fiend** starts to crawl out of the **Pool of Dark Water** in room 3. Slowly clambering toward the party.
		- The **Elite Goblin Guards** snap into action immediately placing themselves in front of Zixx and attack the players.
		- Zixx attacks with small **shadow tendrils** and **shadow bolts**.
		- Upon reaching low health, he spends a round opening a **shadow portal**, which he will use to escape on the next round.
		  
	- **If the Swirling Orb of Shadow is Destroyed OR Zixx dies...**
		- The **Shadow Portal** collapses
		- The **Shadowy Fiend** loses form
		- Any other active **Shadow Magic** dissipates
		  
	- **If the Swirling Orb of Shadow is Held by a Player Character...**
		- The holder can choose to immediately disable any active shadow magic. **Or...**
		- The holder can roll to see if they can instead control the magic
		- If they keep the orb, have the scribbled notes, and perform the ritual, they can gain the **Dark** node for free as long as they continue to hold the orb.

---
## Epilogue: Returning to Sniv

After the encounter, the party returns to Sniv to discuss what transpired.

- If Grubb or any other goblins return with the players...
	- TBD
- **The Gobloon's Unveiling:** Sniv carefully unrolls a bundle of finely woven, tightly stretched animal hides or cured monster bladders—a patchwork sphere that collapses with a soft sigh. "This," he whispers, "this is our tribe's greatest secret! The **Gobloon**!"
- **Gnawer's Breath:** From a small, intricately carved pouch, he extracts shimmering fungi containing "Gnawer's Breath"—a rare, combustible gas gathered deep undergound.
- **Promise of Flight:** Sniv explains the **Gobloon**, when inflated, allows flight above the world, offering unique perspective. He demonstrates how its woven basket can hold several individuals and float them for a limited amount of time high above the ground.

Commit message:

Quick Start Updates
Quick Start updates for into the maw

Expeditions/Guide Resources/Premade Adventures/Quick Start.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Modifier List
permalink: /GuideResources/Adventures/QuickStart/
---
# Expedition: Into the Maw
![The Maw - Dyson Logos](https://dysonlogos.blog/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/with-teeth.jpg)

The "**Great Gnawer**," a subterranean deity revered (and feared) by goblin clans, is furious. The grinding sound from the "**Gnawer's Teeth**" has become chaotic and maddening, driving local goblin clans into a frenzy.

**Hook**:
**Sniv**, a trembling goblin, explains that his brother, **Grubb** (a powerful shaman), and his crew ventured into the "Giant Stone Teeth" a week ago to "appease the Gnawer" and fix the erratic grinding. None returned. Sniv begs for help, offering his tribe's "most cherished" **Gobloon**.


---
## 1. The Descent
You approach a large hill with a two paths leading to the top from opposite sides...
- **20 Large white stone pillars** sit atop a hill in a circular arrangement.
- **The ground trembles** along with a horrible **grinding sound**. 
- At the center of the "teeth" a **wide stairwell** leads underground into the hill.

- **Environmental Hazards:**
    - **Grinding Floor:** Shifting, grinding sections cause trips or injury.
    - **Jutting Teeth:** Sharp, loose rocks on walls scrape or impale.
    - **Falling Debris:** Constant grinding dislodges rocks and dust.


---
## 2. The Engine
You enter a small chamber...
- There are **jagged walls** with tooth-like rock formations.
- A **massive, worn gear** mechanism rotates in the center.
- **3 goblin engineers** are intently working on the mechanism. 
- **Imposing stone doors** to the right (To Area 5).
- **Stairs descending** to the left (To Area 3).
  
**Massive Worn Gear:** Seems to be the cause of the grinding. Could be disabled.

**Imposing stone doors**: Appear to be stuck or otherwise unable to be opened / budged.
  
**Encounter:** Goblins attack when they notice the party. Fight amidst environmental hazards (Grinding Floor, Jutting Teeth, Falling Debris).


---
## 3. The Still Pool
You enter a natural, cool, damp cavern whithin which the grinding sound is muffled, replaced by the sound of dripping water...
- Shallow **pool of dark water** with dark steam rising above it.
- **Crude altar** in an alcove with a **slumped robed figure** next to it.
- A few steps lead to a **wooden door** (To Area 4).
  
**Crude Altar**: Upon the altar are **scribbled notes** about 'fiend magic', and rituals to perhaps become a host of a powerful fiend bound by a dark pact.

**Pool of Dark Water**: Under the still surface an impossibly dark swirling current churns.

**Slumped Robed Figure**: A gaunt, desperate Goblin Shaman, **Grubb** (Sniv's Brother), is **shackled** to the altar, softly moaning a mournful chant.
- Captured while investigating the unsettling silence.
- Shaman of the "Whispering Stone" tribe.
- Observes captors, hopes to share dire warnings...
	- The "Great Gnawer" was a lie.. it is just a machine.
	- The other goblins here seem to be operated by mind control.

- **Encounter:** Opportunity for roleplay and negotiation. Grubb wants to return to his tribe, but is locked to the altar.


---
## 4. The Chamber of Whispers
You enter a small, unassuming chamber...
- There are **Four Stone Goblin Statues** around the outer edge of the room.
- At the center of a room is a pedestal with a **circular indentation** on the top

**Stone Statues:**
- **Goblin Raising a Torch**: If touched by flame, it starts to glow.
- **Goblin Digging with a Shovel**: If touched by water, it starts to glow.
- **Goblin Playing a Flute**: If touched by a gust of air, it starts to glow.
- **Goblin Drinking from a Skin**: If touched by flame, it starts to glow.
- If any incorrect types of magic hit a statue: 
	- 1st time: That type of magic is reflected back at the caster and they must attempt to avoid taking damage.
	- 2nd time: The impacted statue animates briefly and strikes the caster. The rest of the statues rumble.
	- 3rd time: All statues animate and begin to fight the players.
  
**If all 4 statues are glowing OR if they are all destroyed...**
- There is a grinding sound heard from the direction of one of the previous chambers (Door to Area 5 in Area 2 is now open)


---
## 5. The Warlock's Audience
You enter a large cavern humming with dark energy.
- Smooth walls with crude, **glowing glyphs**.
- Upon a raised platform sits a **pale green goblin** upon a jagged rock throne holding a **swirling orb of shadow** in his lap.
- A pair of silent, still **elite goblin guards** stand ready on either side of the throne.

**Pale green goblin**: Zixx the Warlock.
- Holds the key to Grubbs shackles
- Former shaman-in-training under Grubb.
- Made a dark pact with a fiend.
- Exerts influence through impersonating the "Great Gnawer" to reinforce his power and instill fear.
  
- **Encounter Opportunities:**
	- **Zixx engages the player in conversation as they enter the chamber...**
		- "What unfortunate timing... who are you and why are you here?"
		- Passively mentions that once the **ritual is complete** he will no longer need to simply "pretend" to be the Great Gnawer.
		- Offers to empower the players with dark magic if they leave him to complete the ritual.
		  
	- **If the players let Zixx complete the ritual...**
		- Zixx is massively empowered by darkness and appears to be of living shadow.
		- Tendrils reach out from Zixx in all directions into the floor and walls as the grinding begins again.
		- Zixx turns to the players, calls them fools, and attacks them with empowered shadow magic and extra health.
		  
	- **If the players engage Zixx in combat**...
		- Zixx whispers into the orb and a large **Shadowy Fiend** starts to crawl out of the **Pool of Dark Water** in room 3. Slowly clambering toward the party.
		- The **Elite Goblin Guards** snap into action immediately placing themselves in front of Zixx and attack the players.
		- Zixx attacks with small **shadow tendrils** and **shadow bolts**.
		- Upon reaching low health, he spends a round opening a **shadow portal**, which he will use to escape on the next round.
		  
	- **If the Swirling Orb of Shadow is Destroyed OR Zixx dies...**
		- The **Shadow Portal** collapses
		- The **Shadowy Fiend** loses form
		- Any other active **Shadow Magic** dissipates
		  
	- **If the Swirling Orb of Shadow is Held by a Player Character...**
		- The holder can choose to immediately disable any active shadow magic. **Or...**
		- The holder can roll to see if they can instead control the magic
		- If they keep the orb, have the scribbled notes, and perform the ritual, they can gain the **Dark** node for free as long as they continue to hold the orb.


---
## Epilogue: Returning to Sniv

After the encounter, the party returns to Sniv to discuss what transpired.

- If Grubb or any other goblins return with the players...
	- Sniv is thrilled to see them, and sad to hear if any of them didn't make it.
- If Zixx escaped...
	- Sniv urges the players to hunt him down and destroy him.
- **The Gobloon's Unveiling:** Sniv carefully unrolls a bundle of finely woven, tightly stretched animal hides or cured monster bladders—a patchwork sphere that collapses with a soft sigh. "This," he whispers, "this is our tribe's greatest secret! The **Gobloon**!"
- **Gnawer's Breath:** From a small, intricately carved pouch, he extracts shimmering fungi containing "Gnawer's Breath"—a rare, combustible gas gathered deep undergound.
- **Promise of Flight:** Sniv explains the **Gobloon**, when inflated, allows flight above the world, offering unique perspective. He demonstrates how its woven basket can hold several individuals and float them for a limited amount of time high above the ground.
