Rules/Rules.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Rules
permalink: /Rules/
---

Uncharted Waters will initially use **Dungeons & Dragons Fifth Edition** ruleset contained in the [5.1 CC SRD](https://media.wizards.com/2023/downloads/dnd/SRD_CC_v5.1.pdf) and [5eSRD](https://www.5esrd.com/) tools to easily access the SRD contents. This campaign and its rules will evolve as we play, and any rules changes will be listed below:

### Team Initiative
At the start of combat, determine if the player characters or the enemies have initiated combat. Whichever team initiated combat takes turns activating until their *entire team* has taken a turn, then the opposing team does the same. Combat continues alternating between player character turns and enemy turns. 

### Round Robin Initiative
When rolling for initiative at the start of combat, the highest player character initiative goes first when the team takes their turn. After this first player, go clockwise around the table until every player character has taken a turn.

### Static Monster Damage
Monsters will have a set amount of damage they do when each of their attacks succeeds and the GM will not roll monster damage.

***

## Uncharted Waters Rules
Apart from the minor rules changes listed above, the following rules and systems will be used alongside the 5e SRD:
### Open Table
**We play every* week**. Unless there is an emergency or we do not meet minimum attendance, we will be playing Uncharted Waters every week on day at pm for hours.

**We play if we have 2-5 players**. As long as we have at least 2 players willing to play we will play. We will cap out at a maximum of 5 players per session.

**We only use Paper Character Sheets**. 

### Discord
Events - Sign ups, Waitlist, priority, etc.

### Timed Excursions
No Devices

### Unlockable Content
### Ship Travel
### Ship Facilities
### Downtime Activities
### Waystones
### Cataloguing
### Tradeskills









[About Legacy 5e]({{site.baseurl}}/Rules/About)

Commit message:

Zoned Combat
Added rules outline for Zoned Combat

Rules/Rules.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Rules
permalink: /Rules/
---

Uncharted Waters will initially use **Dungeons & Dragons Fifth Edition** ruleset contained in the [5.1 CC SRD](https://media.wizards.com/2023/downloads/dnd/SRD_CC_v5.1.pdf) and [5eSRD](https://www.5esrd.com/) tools to easily access the SRD contents. This campaign and its rules will evolve as we play, and any rules changes will be listed below:

### Team Initiative
At the start of combat, determine if the player characters or the enemies have initiated combat. Whichever team initiated combat takes turns activating until their *entire team* has taken a turn, then the opposing team does the same. Combat continues alternating between player character turns and enemy turns. 

### Round Robin Initiative
When rolling for initiative at the start of combat, the highest player character initiative goes first when the team takes their turn. After this first player, go clockwise around the table until every player character has taken a turn.

### Static Monster Damage
Monsters will have a set amount of damage they do when each of their attacks succeeds and the GM will not roll monster damage.

### Combat Zones
For some combat encounters, rather than used a gridded battle map where each square represents 5 feet, we will use abstracted combat zones. Combat attack range and movement distance will be simplified into 3 zones: **Close**, **Near**, and **Far**. In one round of combat you can move 1 zone. For example, you could move from Near to Close, or from Far to Near. Range on attacks and spells will be at GM discretion, but generally much more flexible than specific distances in feet. If you want to melee attack someone, be in the same zone as them. If you want to range attack them, be within 1 zone away from them, etc.


***

## Uncharted Waters Rules
Apart from the minor rules changes listed above, the following rules and systems will be used alongside the 5e SRD:
### Open Table
**We play every* week**. Unless there is an emergency or we do not meet minimum attendance, we will be playing Uncharted Waters every week on day at pm for hours.

**We play if we have 2-5 players**. As long as we have at least 2 players willing to play we will play. We will cap out at a maximum of 5 players per session.

**We only use Paper Character Sheets**. 

### Discord
Events - Sign ups, Waitlist, priority, etc.

### Timed Excursions
No Devices

### Unlockable Content
### Ship Travel
### Ship Facilities
### Downtime Activities
### Waystones
### Cataloguing
### Tradeskills









[About Legacy 5e]({{site.baseurl}}/Rules/About)
